# RIVET (Ribosomal Investigation and Visualization to Evaluate Translation)

RIVET is a simple to use R-shiny based graphical user interface to automate the statistical analysis of RNA sequencing data and microarray data generated by either polysome profiling or ribosome footprinting.  RIVET requires a tab-delimited or comma-delimited text file of counts data (commonly generated in many RNA seq computational pipelines) or background corrected and normalized microarray data.  The main goal of RIVET is to make data analysis of data generated by genome-wide translatome experiments accessible to bench scientists.


## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Prerequisites

* R
* shiny
* limma
* biobase
* ggplot2
* edgeR
* gplots
* RColorBrewer
* shinythemes


### Deployment

For local deployment, all app files including ui.R, server.R, global.R along with www folder should be located within the working directory. To launch from the commandline, open a terminal and begin an R session within the working directory. 

To install required packages, start R and enter:

```
# for cran packages
>install.packages('shiny')
>install.packages('ggplot2')
>install.packages('gplots')
>install.packages('RColorBrewer')
>install.packages('shinythemes')

# for bioconductor packages
>source("https://bioconductor.org/biocLite.R")
>biocLite('limma')
>biocLite('edgeR')
```

To launch the RIVET app locally, execute the following in terminal (while not in R session) where ~/shinyapp should be replaced with the path to your application:

```
Rscript -e 'library(methods); shiny::runApp("~/shinyapp", launch.browser=TRUE)'

```

## Running the tests

Explain how to run the automated tests for this system

### Break down into end to end tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
Give an example
```

### And coding style tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
Give an example
```

## Deployment

Add additional notes about how to deploy this on a live system

## Built With

* [R shiny](https://shiny.rstudio.com) - The web framework used


## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/b24679402957c63ec426) for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.

## Versioning

For the versions available, see the [tags on this repository](https://github.com/your/project/tags). 

## Authors

* **Amanda Ernlund** - *Initial work* 
* **Kelly Ruggles** - *Maintainer*  

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

* Hat tip to anyone who's code was used
* Inspiration
* etc

